GOOD EVENING
EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO THE
OCTOBER SIX MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
TO THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA AND TO THE
REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT STANDS.
ONE NATION IS LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL WHAT OUR CLARK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNSELOR FOR COUNCIL
BRITISH HERE COUNCILOR HARRISON
APSA COUNCILOR WATSON COUNCILOR
MALIK HERE, COUNCILOR EDINA
HERE AS REGARDS THE ODD ONE
HERE, MAYOR TAYLOR HERE
COUNCILOR IHR YOUR CUSTOMER
AKMAN HERE, COUNCILOR BRIGGS
HERE, COUNCILOR CORNELL HERE WE
HAVE THE MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILOR BY OUR SECOND BY
COUNCIL UNDER BRIGS DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA WHILE IN FAVOR OR
OPPOSED THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE A COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
NOEMIA.
WE HAVE TODAY THE PLEASURE OF A
REPORT FROM THE CHAIR OF THE
INDEPENDENT COMMITTEE.
PLEASE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION
CHAIR CARTER CHAIR CARTER, YOU
HAVE THE GOOD AFTERNOON, MAYOR
TAYLOR.
MR ADMINISTRATOR,
COUNCILPERSONS CITY CLERK.
GOOD EVENING.
IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE HERE WITH
YOU AND REPORT ON WHAT IMPACT
HAS BEEN DOING.
AS YOU MAY KNOW, WE DON'T MEET
IN JULY OR AUGUST AND SO OUR
FIRST MEETING IN A WHILE WAS
LAST WEEK OUR SEPTEMBER MEETING
.
HOWEVER, DURING THAT TIME WE
ARE STILL WORKING.
WE ARE RECEIVING COMPLAINTS AND
AND WORKING TO RESOLVE THEM
LATER.
LAST WEEK'S MEETING WAS ONE
OF THE LARGEST ATTENDED
ATTENDED THAT WE HAVE HAD.
WE DECIDED TO TAKE THE TIME TO
REVIEW THE MR TREES THAT HAVE
APPEARED TWICE IN THE ANN ARBOR
NEWS REGARDING THE AFTERMATH
OF THE DRIVE IN EQUALITY
ORDINANCE AND WE ANNOUNCED THE
MEETING THAT WE WERE GOING TO
BE TALKING ABOUT THOSE ISSUES
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE MEETING
AND WE HAD A VERY GOOD TURNOUT
.
>> THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR
OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
CAME AND AND COUNCILPERSON
HARRISON SPOKE GIVING A LITTLE
BACKGROUND ABOUT THE ORDINANCE
AND THEN CHIEF ANDERSON SPOKE
AS YOU KNOW, THE ARTICLE IN THE
ANN ARBOR NEWS REPORTED THAT
THE ACTUAL NUMBER OF BLACK
DRIVERS THAT HAD BEEN STOPPED
HAD GONE UP SINCE THE ORDINANCE
WAS PASSED THAT CONCERNED US.
WE DON'T BELIEVE ANYONE SHOULD
BE TARGETED BECAUSE OF THE
COLOR OF THEIR SKIN AND
OF COURSE WE KNOW THAT THE
COUNCIL AGREES WITH US HAVING
PASSED THE ORDINANCE.
SO WE DECIDED TO LOOK INTO IT
AND ALSO THE CURRENT PRESIDENT
OF THE NAACP AND OUR BRANCH
CAME AND SPOKE WHAT WE LEARNED
FROM CHIEF COX FROM CHIEF
ANDERSON IS THAT HE HAD
PREPARED AND IMPLEMENTED A
POLICY AND SINCE THE POLICY WAS
IMPLEMENTED THE NUMBERS
OF THOSE KIND OF STEPS WENT
DOWN TO NEAR ZERO.
SO I THINK EVERYBODY WE HAVE
AND I THINK ON OUR WEBSITE
WE'RE GOING TO POST SOME OF THE
DOCUMENTATION THAT WE WERE
PRESENTED AT THE MEETING.
SO IT'S A VERY SUCCESSFUL
MEETING AND I THINK EVERYONE
WHO CAME WENT AWAY BELIEVING
THAT THEY WERE SATISFIED WITH
THAT INFORMATION.
OUR POLICY COMMITTEE IS STILL
WORKING.
WE ARE ACTUALLY LOOKING AT
EVERY POLICY OF THE ANN ARBOR
POLICE DEPARTMENT TO SEE IF WE
WANT TO MAKE ANY SUGGESTIONS
FOR CHANGES OR UPGRADES ON
THOSE POLICIES.
SO THAT IS STILL ONGOING.
WE ARE STILL HAVING OUR
TRANSPARENCY MEETINGS.
WE HAVE ONE COMING UP NEXT WEEK
AND THEN FOR THOSE WHO DON'T
KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THAT MEANS,
YOU MAY REMEMBER THAT WE HAD A
BACK AND FORTH AS TO WHAT
INFORMATION XPAC COULD SEE FROM
POLICE REPORTS WHAT WAS GOING
TO BE REDACTED, WHAT IT WAS OUR
POSITION THAT WE NEEDED TO SEE
EVERYTHING SO THAT WE COULD
CLEARLY MAKE DECISIONS WHEN
WHEN COMPLAINTS WERE MADE
.
AND I KNOW THERE WAS AN ISSUE
OF THINGS GETTING OUT INTO THE
PUBLIC.
AND SO WHAT CHIEF ANDERSON PUT
TOGETHER IS TRANSPARENCY
MEETINGS WHERE OUR INFORMATION
MANAGERS MEET WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND WE ARE ABLE TO
SEE ALL OF THE POLICE REPORTS.
WE'RE ABLE TO SEE ALL OF THE ON
CAMERA BODY WORN CAMERA FOOTAGE
AND THIS IS WORKED OUT WE THINK
VERY WELL.
SO WE ARE LOOKING FORWARD TO
THIS YEAR ON YOUR AGENDA IS
VACANCY.
WE HAD ONE OF OUR MEMBERS WHO
BECAUSE OF HER JOB DUTIES HAS
HAD TO STEP BACK SO I WANT TO
PUT THAT OUT THERE WE ARE
LOOKING AGAIN FOR ANOTHER
COMMISSIONER AND THAT'S THE
UPDATE.
UNLESS THERE ARE ANY QUESTIONS
WE'RE DONE.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO THE COMMON
RESERVE OF TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME.
IT IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SEEK A COMMON
PUBLIC AND RESERVE TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
TO HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH
TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND SEE
THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS ALEX
LOWE
THAT EVENING BEFORE
ANYTHING ELSE I'D LIKE TO THANK
THE SEVERAL PEOPLE WHO BROUGHT
FOOD TONIGHT AS I DIDN'T GET A
CHANCE TO HAVE A PROPER DINNER
AND IF I HADN'T BEEN ABLE TO TO
SNACK BEFORE EATING I WOULD BE
HANGRY RIGHT NOW INSTEAD I'M
ONLY MILDLY IRRITATED.
WHY AM I IRRITATED?
WELL, OTHER THAN IT BEING MY
DEFAULT STAGE I HAVE SEVERAL
REAL REASONS TO FIRST I'M
IRRITATED WITH THE QUALITY
OF OUR DISCOURSE.
SOME OF MY NEIGHBORS APPEAR TO
BELIEVE THAT THEIR CONVENIENCE
IS WORTH THE LIVES OF OTHERS
SECON AND I'M IRRITATED THAT
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE IS SAID TO
BE THE MOST DANGEROUS YEAR IN
A.B.C..
SORRY EXCUSE ME MA'AM COULD YOU
PLEASE KEEP YOUR SIGN OUT
OF THE AISLE?
>> THERE IS NOBODY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH MA'AM.
PLEASE KEEP YOUR SIGN OUT
OF THE AISLE.
YOU DO THIS MA'AM IT IS LIKE
MUSIC YOUR THANK YOU VERY MUCH
.
HELLO YOU HAVE THE FLOOR
GENOCIDE IS HAPPENING MA'AM MY
SORRY MA'AM THE RULES AND
PROVIDE FOR REQUESTING THAT YOU
KEEP YOUR SIGN OUT OF THE AISLE
PLEASE DO SO THANK YOU.
>> OK SO FOR REASONS NOW SO
THIRD I'M IRRITATED BY THE
INTERRUPTIONS AND FOURTH I AM
MA'AM PLEASE DO NOT DISRUPT THE
SPEAKER AGAIN AND FOURTH I AM
IRRITATED BY HOW LITTLE WE
APPEAR TO BE DOING ABOUT THIS.
STUDIES HAVE SHOWN THAT NO
AMOUNT OF ENFORCEMENT WILL STOP
PEOPLE FROM ACTING LIKE
PSYCHOPATHS WHILE DRIVING.
WE NEED INFRASTRUCTURE CHANGES.
WE NEED RAISED INTERSECTIONS.
WE NEED BALANCE REAL BALANCE
NOT FLEX POSTS.
WE NEED PHYSICAL BARRIERS TO
PROTECT PEOPLE FROM CARS THE
SAME WAY WE USE PHYSICAL
BARRIERS TO PROTECT PEOPLE FROM
DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
THIS YEAR WE HAVE FAILED AT
VISION ZERO WE FAILED ON THE
8TH OF JANUARY.
WE FAILED AGAIN ON THE 16TH
OF JANUARY AND AGAIN ON THE 6TH
OF FEBRUARY.
WE FAILED ON THE ELEVENTH
OF MARCH WE FAILED ON THE 7TH
OF MARCH.
WE FAILED TWICE IN APRIL, TWICE
IN MAY AND TWICE IN JUNE.
WE FAILED ON THE TWENTY NINTH
OF JULY.
WE FAILED ON THE 19TH OF AUGUST
AND WE FAILED TWICE IN
SEPTEMBER.
SO I'D LIKE TO THANK COUNCILMAN
AKMAN FOR SPONSORING CITY ONE
TONIGHT.
IT IS A STEP IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION AND I HOPE WITH THAT
WITH ENOUGH OF THESE STEPS I
WILL EVENTUALLY BE ABLE TO COME
UP AND SAY THAT WE SUCCEEDED.
BUT RIGHT NOW WE ARE STILL
FAILING AT THE VERY SIMPLE GOAL
OF ZERO DEATHS OR MAJOR
INJURIES FROM TRAFFIC VIOLENCE.
>> THANK THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
JUSZKIEWICZ.
>> THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TO
SPEAK TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ AND
I LIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD.
I'M SPEAKING IN SUPPORT VITAMIN
C ONE A CHANGE TO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION'S
DUTIES TO REVIEW TRAFFIC
CRASHES.
I THINK THIS IS A USEFUL CHANGE
AND ASK THAT YOU ADVANCE TO
SECOND READING BUT I MAINLY
WANT TO SPEAK TO THE BROADER
TOPIC OF VISION ZERO WHICH THIS
ORDINANCE SUPPORTS.
I WILL FOCUS ON PEDESTRIAN
CRASHES RESULTING IN SERIOUS OR
FATAL INJURIES.
I THINK WE HAVE A BETTER HANDLE
ON BICYCLE CRASHES AND WE'RE
CERTAINLY INVESTING IN GOOD
BICYCLE INFRASTRUCTURE.
ONE POINT I WANT TO MAKE IS
THAT WE ARE ALL PEDESTRIANS, WE
ARE ALL PEDESTRIANS WHETHER WE
WALK DRIVE RIGHT OR BIKE OR
TAKE THE BUS WE ARE ALL
PEDESTRIANS.
I TOOK THE BUS HERE TONIGHT BUT
I WALKED FROM MY HOUSE TO MY
BUS STOP AND FROM BLAK TRANSIT
CENTER TO CITY HALL.
WHEN I DRIVE MY CAR I PARK AND
WALK TO MY DESTINATION.
THE FOLKS WHO RODE THEIR BIKES
HERE TONIGHT LOCK THEM UP AND
WALKED INTO CITY HALL.
WE ARE ALL PEDESTRIANS AND
THAT'S WHY I DON'T KNOW WHY WE
SEEM TO BE SO AFRAID OF CAUSING
MODERATE DELAY AND
INCONVENIENCE TO DRIVERS IN
ORDER TO MAKE OUR STREETS SAFE
FOR PEDESTRIANS.
ALL THOSE DRIVERS WERE RECENTLY
AND SOON WILL BE PEDESTRIANS
THEY DESERVE TO GET TO AND FROM
THEIR CARS SAFELY JUST AS I
DESERVE TO GET TO AND FROM MY
BUS SAFELY.
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY IS GOOD FOR
ALL OF US BECAUSE WE ARE ALL
PEDESTRIANS.
THIS COUNCIL HAS COMMITTED AND
RECOMMITTED DIVISION ZERO BUT
PEOPLE ARE STILL BEING KILLED
AND MAIMED BY TRAFFIC VIOLENCE
ON OUR STREETS WITH TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE ON TRACK TO BE THE
WORST YEAR IN A DECADE WHERE
THE RESULTS WHAT WILL YOU DO TO
END THIS CRISIS?
DO YOU SEE IT AS A CRISIS?
DO YOU MR. DOLLIE?
I'M GLAD TO SEE STEPPED UP
ENFORCEMENT OF SPEED LIMITS ON
MAJOR CORRIDORS RECENTLY BUT
SPEEDING ISN'T THE ONLY PROBLEM
.
WE NEED MORE CROSSWALKS, RED
LIGHTS AND STOP SIGN
ENFORCEMENT ACROSS THE CITY.
WE ALSO NEED BETTER ENFORCEMENT
ON MINOR BUT STILL PROBLEMATIC
CORRIDORS SUCH AS LIBERTY
SEVENTH AND GREEN WHERE DRIVERS
ROUTINELY SPEED IT AND MORE
PEOPLE IN CROSSWALKS.
BUT ENFORCEMENT ISN'T ENOUGH.
THE POLICE CAN'T BE EVERYWHERE
AND AS SOON AS THEY MOVE ON TO
A DIFFERENT PART OF THE CITY
PEOPLE NOTICE AND START
SPEEDING AGAIN.
WE NEED TO SLOW DRIVERS AND
NON-LETHAL SPEEDS WHERE THEY
INTERACT WITH PEDESTRIANS.
WE NEED MORE AND BETTER MARKED
CROSSWALKS WITH DAYLIGHTING.
WE NEED TO ELIMINATE THE
FLASHING YELLOW ARROW FACES ON
INTERSECTIONS WHERE THERE ARE
NO BIG BUTTONS TO CANCEL THEM.
WE NEED TO ELIMINATE EXCESSIVE
LANES AND WE NEED TO TAKE OVER
THE STATE TRUNK LINE SO WE CAN
IMPLEMENT THE SAME MEASURES
THERE.
WHEN I'VE TALKED TO CITY STAFF
THEY ARE KNOWLEDGEABLE, CAPABLE
AND APPEAR WILLING TO FOLLOW
THROUGH AND DO WHAT IS
NECESSARY.
THEY NEED YOUR SUPPORT.
WE HAVE PEOPLE IN OUR COMMUNITY
WHO HAVE THE EXPERTIZE IN THIS
AREA AND SEVERAL OF THEM SERVE
ON TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
THEY NEED YOU TO LISTEN TO
THEM.
WE SPEND PLENTY OF MONEY ON
CONSULTANTS AND STUDIES THAT
TELL US MOSTLY WHAT WE ALREADY
KNOW WHEN THESE STUDIES
CONCLUDE WE MUST PRIORITIZE
IMPLEMENTATION EVERY DEAD OR
MAIMED ROAD USER IS A POLICY
FAILURE RESULTING FROM CHOICES
YOU MAKE AT THIS TABLE.
WE NEED YOU TO DO BETTER.
PLEASE DO BETTER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CATHY
GRISWOLD.
I'M ALSO SPEAKING ON SEE ONE
GOOD EVENING.
WE ARE HERE TONIGHT NOT JUST AS
CITIZENS BUT AS NEIGHBORS
PROFOUNDLY CONCERNED AND
FRANKLY DEEPLY FRUSTRATED BY A
CRISIS OF SAFETY UNFOLDING ON
OUR STREETS.
I PEOPLE ARE TIRED OF HEARING
FROM ME.
I AM EVEN MORE TIRED OF STATING
THE OBVIOUS AND OBVIOUS
PEDESTRIAN CRASH RATE IS NOT
JUST INCREASING, IT IS REACHING
TRAGIC RECORD SETTING LEVELS.
MOST OF US KNOW SOMEONE WHO HAS
BEEN SERIOUSLY INJURED IN A
PEDESTRIAN CRASH SEE ONE
ADDRESSES DATA WE ADOPTED
VISION ZERO VISION ZERO IS DATA
DRIVEN.
WE WERE GETTING DATA FROM STAFF
TO THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION UNTIL IT WASN'T GOOD
DATA ANYMORE AND THEN IT
STOPPED SO WE PROMISED SAFETY
BUT WHAT WE'VE RECEIVED IS
CONTINUED RISK PARTICULARLY AT
INTERSECTIONS WHERE THE CITY
KNOWS DANGER LURKS.
SO WE'VE HEARD A LOT ABOUT
RIGHT SIZING ROADS AND OTHER
THINGS.
I WANT TO FOCUS SPECIFICALLY ON
INTERSECTIONS BECAUSE GREEN AND
GLACIER WAY WHICH IS TWO MILES
FROM MY HOME HAS HAD PROBLEMS.
I PUT IN NUMEROUS TICKETS.
I WAS PUTTING IN REQUESTS FOR
IMPROVEMENTS BEFORE WE HAD A TO
FIX IT.
IT HAS NOT BEEN IMPROVED.
WE HAD A CRASH IN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE.
NOTHING HAS BEEN DONE.
WE HAD ANOTHER CRASH JUST LAST
MONTH.
WE HAVE GOT TO TAKE ACTION AND
I JUST DON'T KNOW WHAT ELSE I
CAN DO OTHER THAN PERSONALLY
INTERVENE AND I DID THAT DOWN
THE GANDY DANCER WHERE THEY
CONTINUE TO PUT THEIR VALET
PARKING SIGN IN THE TRAFFIC
LANE AND I ASK THEM TO MOVE IT
AND THEY SAID THAT THEY
COULDN'T BECAUSE THE BIG TRUCKS
COULDN'T GET IN TO HAVE VALET
PARKING UNLESS THEY PUT THEIR
TRAFFIC THEIR VALET SIGN IN THE
STREET.
SO I SIMPLY SAID IF I SEE IT
THERE AGAIN I'M GOING TO STEAL
IT.
GUESS WHAT?
IT HASN'T BEEN THERE AGAIN
BECAUSE IT'S LIKE OK, WHY DON'T
YOU ARREST ME FOR MOVING AN
OBSTRUCTION IN THE TRAFFIC LANE
?
IT'S LIKE WHY DO WE HAVE TO GO
TO THIS EXTENT JUST DO THE
RIGHT THING TO BEGIN WITH.
SO I ALSO WANT TO TALK ABOUT
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
WE HAVE HUNDREDS OF VIOLATIONS
TO THE MICHIGAN MANUAL
OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL
DEVICES.
I DON'T KNOW WHY I TRAVEL ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY.
I NEVER SEE VIOLATIONS EXCEPT
IN ANN ARBOR AND LASTLY, I WANT
TO MENTION THE CORNER
OF CATHERINE AND
FORTH.
I SENT A PHOTO OF YOUNG
CHILDREN CROSSING IN FRONT OF A
PARKED TRUCK TO THE MAYOR THAT
WAS RESOLVED.
BUT NOW WHEN SOMEONE PUT A
TICKET IN SAYING THEY COULDN'T
SEE THE STOP SIGN, THEY MOVED
THE STOP SIGNS WHICH ARE NOT
REGULATION STOP SIGNS TO THE
MIDDLE OF THE STREET AND YOU
STILL CAN'T SEE THE PEDESTRIAN
WHO'S STANDING AT THE CURB.
>> IT'S EVEN MORE DANGEROUS.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER, NICOLE
EIDELMAN.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
I'M HERE TO SLIGHTLY CHANGE THE
TOPIC TO HOUSING AND
HOMELESSNESS.
SEVERAL OF YOU I HAVE MET
BEFORE AND I HAVE HAD THE
PLEASURE TO WORK WITH IN
DIFFERENT CAPACITIES BUT I'M
HERE TONIGHT TO INTRODUCE
MYSELF AND MY NEW ROLE AS THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, THE SHELTER
ASSOCIATION OF WASHINGTON
COUNTY.
SO I JUST WANTED TO COME HERE
TONIGHT TO EXPRESS MY
APPRECIATION FOR THE SUPPORT
THAT CITY COUNCIL HAS PROVIDED
TO THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION AND
THEREBY TO THOSE MOST
VULNERABLE IN OUR CITY AND IN
OUR COUNTY.
SO I APPRECIATE THAT AND I ALSO
WANTED TO EXTEND AN INVITATION.
I'M HAPPY TO MEET WITH COUNCIL
AS A WHOLE OR ANYONE
INDIVIDUALLY AS NEEDED SO
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO REACH OUT
TO ME.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND I ARE IN
TOUCH AND HAVE BEEN WORKING
TOGETHER FOR A YEAR AND
DIFFERENT CAPACITY.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN FOR YOUR
SUPPORT AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
WORKING WITH YOU TO THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KIRK
WESTFALL
.
>> GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
IT'S A SOLEMN THRESHOLD WE
PASSED THIS MONTH THE GOOD
NEWS IS THAT WE'RE ALL ON THE
SAME PAGE.
YOU'VE MADE IT CLEAR IN WRITING
REPEATEDLY WHAT YOUR PRIORITIES
ARE BUT WE ARE ALL SEEING THAT
THEY ARE NOT HAPPENING FIVE
MILES OF BIKE LANES PER YEAR.
FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
FOR QUICK BUILDS COMMITMENTS
AND COMMITMENTS TO ELIMINATE
SERIOUS INJURIES AND DEATHS ON
ROADS NONE ACCOMPLISHED OR EVEN
CLOSE.
I'D LIKE TO COVER THREE TOPICS
TONIGHT THE TRUNK LINE
TRANSFER.
WHEN DOES WHERE DOES IT STAND?
WHAT IS THE TIMELINE?
WHAT IS THE HOLD UP?
WHO DO WE NEED TO LOBBY NO TO
QUICK BUILDS A YEAR AND A HALF
AGO I WAS HERE SHARING A VIDEO
WITH YOU THAT SHOWED A NEAR
MISS OF A CHILD IN A CROSSWALK
IN SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA.
I SHOWED YOU HOW TWO DAYS LATER
THE CITY PUT UP FLEX POSTS AND
NARROW THE ROAD TO PREVENT
FURTHER DOUBLE THREAT CROSSINGS
AND WHAT THEY CALL THE PILOT
PROJECT.
THE PILOT IS STILL THERE.
I EMAILED YOU AN EXAMPLE FROM
JERSEY CITY WHERE CITY STAFF
QUOTE INSTALLED SMALL DIAMETER
MINI ROUNDABOUTS AT TWO
INTERSECTIONS USING WHATEVER
MATERIALS THE CITY AT
HANDICRAFT TRAFFIC CONES,
PLANTERS BIROS LASIC DELINEATOR
AND PAINT.
IT TURNED OUT THAT THIS WORKED
BETTER THAN EVERYONE EXPECTED.
QUICK BILLS SHOULDN'T BE HARD.
A COUPLE OF YOU WORK HERE
DURING HEALTHY STREETS WHERE
THE CITY WIDE AND SIDEWALKS AND
SHIFTED LANE LINES.
WE ALSO SEE ROAD CREWS SHUT
DOWN LANES ALL YEAR ROUND FOR
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS AND
MOTORISTS COPE JUST FINE.
CITIES CAN DO THIS.
THIRD IS THE ROAD RIGHT SIZING
PROJECT TWO YEARS AGO YOU
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT ARE MULTI LANE
ROADS ARE DISPROPORTIONATELY
HARMING US.
THE ROAD RIGHT SIZING PROJECT
HAD THE RIGHT IDEA BUT THIS
PROJECT CURRENTLY PRESENTS TWO
MAJOR PROBLEMS.
THE FIRST IS THAT THE
CONSULTANT TOOL DESIGN IS
LABORING UNDER THE
MISUNDERSTANDING THAT IT'S
THEIR JOB TO MERELY LOWER
SPEEDS AND BALANCE PRIORITIES
BETWEEN SAFETY AND CONGESTION.
THIS IS BY DEFINITION NOT
VISION ZERO.
IT IS DANGEROUSLY INCORRECT AND
REQUIRES YOUR INTERVENTION NOT
ONCE IN THEIR FIRST MEETING
WITH THE CITY FOR EXAMPLE DID
THEY MENTION THE DIRECTIVE TO
ELIMINATE DEATHS AND SERIOUS
INJURIES NUMBER TWO, THE OTHER
PROBLEM IS THIS STUDY COULD BE
LEADING STAFF TO THINK THEY
SHOULDN'T TOUCH ANY OF THE MOST
DANGEROUS ROADS BECAUSE THE
CONSULTANT IS LOOKING AT THEM.
THIS IS ALSO INCORRECT.
PLEASE DIRECT THEM TO START THE
QUICK BUILDS NOW THEY HAVE FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS TO DO
PILOT PROJECTS.
HUNDREDS OF YOUR CONSTITUENTS
THINK THE STADIUM IS A GOOD
PLACE TO START SINCE THERE'S
THREE SCHOOLS RIGHT NEXT TO IT
.
OR YOU CAN DO PACARD OR YOU CAN
START WITH GREEN ROAD WHICH HAS
BEEN IN THE HOPPER FOR MORE
THAN TEN YEARS AND NEARLY
KILLED A PEDESTRIAN EARLIER
THIS YEAR JUST PLEASE START IF
STAFF ISN'T WILLING TO DECIDE
WHAT TO MAKE SAFER THAN YOU
HAVE TO THE FACT THAT YOU HAVE
THE MONEY BUT NO RESULTS MEANS
IT'S EITHER A COMMUNICATION
PROBLEM OR A PERSONNEL PROBLEM
IN THE END JUST PLEASE DO
SOMETHING AND DO IT NOW.
THANK THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DIRECTING
GIOVANA
ERICA VAN JONES IS
JOINING US ON THE.
>> GOOD EVENING.
NEIGHBORS AND CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS ERIC BOSTITCH AND
I'M SPEAKING TO YOU TONIGHT
FROM THE 3RD WARD.
SO FAR THIS YEAR MORE PEOPLE IN
OUR CITY HAVE BEEN SERIOUSLY
INJURED OR KILLED WHILE WALKING
THAN IN ANY FULL YEAR SINCE
TWENTY FOURTEEN THAT'S TWO
LIVES LOST AND ELEVEN PEOPLE
SERIOUSLY HURT AND WE STILL
HAVE THREE MORE MONTHS LEFT IN
THE YEAR 2020.
I WAS SUPPOSED TO BE THE YEAR
WE REACHED VISION ZERO A YEAR
WITHOUT TRAFFIC DEATHS OR
SERIOUS INJURIES BUT INSTEAD
WE'RE ON TRACK FOR THE MOST
DANGEROUS YEAR IN A DECADE.
THIS IS A CRISIS AND CALLS FOR
IMMEDIATE ACTION AND CONSTANT
ACTION.
OUR POLICE DEPARTMENT HAS
STARTED FOCUSED ENFORCEMENT
ALONG OUR HIGH CRASH AREAS AND
THAT'S IMPORTANT AND WE NEED TO
BUILD ON THAT IN THESE FINAL
MONTHS OF TWENTY TWENTY FIVE WE
CAN TAKE FIVE IMMEDIATE STEPS
TO MAKE OUR STREETS SAFER.
THE FIRST IS TO PASS ITEMS C
ONE ON TONIGHT'S AGENDA SAW
CITY ADMINISTRATOR, POLICE
CHIEF AND TRANSPORTATION AND
MANAGER REGULARLY WORK WITH OUR
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION TO
PROGRESSIVELY ENHANCE SAFETY
PRIMARILY THROUGH ENGINEERING
BUT ALSO THROUGH TARGETED
ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
NUMBER TWO MEASURE DRIVER
COMPLIANCE AT CROSSWALKS NUMBER
THREE DEACTIVATE FLASHING
YELLOW ARROWS INTERSECTIONS
WHERE CONTROLS CANNOT DETECT
THE PRESENCE OF A PEDESTRIAN
NUMBER FOUR IN FORCE DRIVER
COMPLIANCE AT SIGNALIZED
SECTIONS TO PROTECT CROSSING
PEDESTRIANS AND ALL OTHER USERS
.
AND NUMBER FIVE CONDUCT
TARGETED ENFORCEMENT OF AN
ARBOR'S CROSSWALK ORDINANCE.
>> BUT BEYOND THESE QUICK
ACTIONS WE CAN WE NEED TO
FOLLOW THROUGH ON SOME LONGER
TERM CHANGES THAT WE'VE ALREADY
DISCUSSED IN SOME CASES EVEN
COMMITTED TO AND THE FIRST
ABOUT LIST IS TO SPEND FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
ALREADY BUDGETED FOR QUICK
BUILD PROJECTS TO MAKE OUR MOST
DANGEROUS STREETS SAFER.
THE SECOND IS TO ENSURE THE
ROADS WAY RIGHT SIZING PROJECT
WILL SLOW TRAFFIC TO SUBLETHAL
SPEEDS WHERE PEOPLE WALK AND
BIKE AND THE THIRD IS TO
COMPLETE THE TRANSFER OF MORE
CONTROLLED ROADS BECAUSE WE
CANNOT MAKE REAL SAFETY CHANGES
WITHOUT LOCAL CONTROL, OUR
COMMUNITY HAS BEEN CLEAR WE ARE
WILLING TO SLOW DOWN TO SAVE
LIVES.
OTHER CITIES HAVE DONE IT.
THE TOOLS EXIST.
>> WE JUST NEED OUR LEADERSHIP
TO ACT AND TO KEEP ON ACTING.
LET'S NOT WAIT UNTIL ANOTHER
NEIGHBOR BECOMES ANOTHER TRAGIC
STATISTIC.
MISSION ZERO ISN'T JUST A
SLOGAN.
IT'S A PROMISE AND A PROMISE
THAT REQUIRES CONSTANT FOLLOW
THROUGH.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR OUR NEXT SPEAKERS
BLAINE COLEMAN
OK, MY NAME IS
BLAINE COLEMAN.
I HAVE BEEN SPEAKING IN THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL FOR OVER
TWENTY THREE YEARS AND I'VE
BEEN DEMANDING A RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
BECAUSE ISRAEL HAS BEEN
MASSACRING PALESTINIANS ALL
THAT TIME IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN
MAYOR TAYLOR WHO YOU SEE
SITTING HERE REFUSED POINT
BLANK TO EVEN MENTION GAZA.
WHAT WAS SPECIAL ABOUT TWENTY
EIGHTEEN ISRAEL WAS GUNNING
DOWN THOUSANDS OF UNARMED HUMAN
RIGHTS MARCHERS IN GAZA AND
KILLED HUNDREDS OF THEM.
MAYOR TAYLOR REFUSED EVEN WHEN
ASKED BY THE MEDIA HERE REFUSED
TO EVEN MENTION GAZA TWO YEARS
AGO.
A WHOLE LOT OF US CAME TO THE
CITY COUNCIL TO DEMAND A
RESOLUTION TO STOP THIS CARNAGE
IN GAZA COMMITTED BY ISRAEL.
>> MAYOR TAYLOR AGAIN VERY
PUBLICLY SAID THIS COUNCIL IS
NOT GOING TO TALK ABOUT GAZA.
THE WHOLE COUNCIL SITTING
BEHIND HIM AGREED.
NOT ONE OF THEM SAID A WORD
ABOUT GAZA.
>> TWO HUNDRED PEOPLE FILLED UP
THIS CITY COUNCIL.
ONE HUNDRED UPSTAIRS AND
ANOTHER HUNDRED DOWNSTAIRS
AFTER THAT AND THEN ANOTHER TWO
HUNDRED PEOPLE CAME A FEW WEEKS
AFTER THAT AND FILLED UP THE
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS AFTER
THREE OR FOUR TIMES OF THAT,
THE CITY COUNCIL WAS FORCED TO
PASS A VERY WEAK RESOLUTION
THAT WAS IN FAVOR OF A CEASE
FIRE IF IT WAS BILATERAL AND
EVERYONE AGREED TO IT, WELL
THAT WAS A VICTORY.
A WEAK RESOLUTION NEVER BLAMED
ISRAEL BUT THAT WAS A VICTORY
FOR THE TWO HUNDRED PEOPLE WHO
CAME HERE TODAY.
THERE IS SUCH MASS REVULSION,
SUCH MASS REVULSION AGAINST
THIS GENOCIDE ISRAEL IS
COMMITTING THAT THE WHOLE
PROGRESSIVE WING OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY HAS RUN AWAY
FROM ISRAEL.
BUT THIS CITY COUNCIL IS STILL
STICKING WITH ISRAEL AND
GENOCIDE TO THEIR ETERNAL
SHAME.
THIS CITY COUNCIL REFUSES EVEN
NOW TO APPROVE A RESOLUTION
THAT SIMPLY SAYS THIS WE ARE
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
THIS CITY COUNCIL REFUSES EVEN
NOW WITH PROBABLY HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF DEAD
PALESTINIANS TO EVEN APPROVE
THIS
.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOSEN
SOUTHERN PROVINCE.
BIELSA, FUNNY FREE THREE THREE
FREE, FREE, FREE, FREE FROM THE
RIVER TO ME PISCINE WILL BE
FREE FROM THE RED SEA WILL BE
FREE FOR BUT I REALLY
APPRECIATE IT ALWAYS IN THE
HUMAN MIND ALL YOU HAVE I HOPE
THAT EVERYBODY THAT HONESTLY
YES.
EVERYBODY GOT ALL ON AND THE
SAME FAMILY BETTER TO HAVE
GREAT THANK YOU MA'AM.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL PEOPLE THAT NAWBO THANK
YOU FOR HEARING US.
THIS CITY COUNCIL AS WAS JUST
MENTIONED HAS BEEN STAUNCHLY
MINDING THE BACK OF ISRAEL
REALLY, REALLY INSISTING TO
SUPPORT IT AND I AM HERE TO ASK
EVERY ONE OF YOU SITTING OUT
THERE WATCHING US TO COME HERE
JUST LIKE THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
SITTING HERE RIGHT NOW AND
SUPPORT US.
THIS CITY COUNCIL WE ALL KNOW
DOES NOT REPRESENT ANN ARBOR.
THEY REPRESENT THOSE WHO
CONTRIBUTED TO THE CAMPAIGN AND
THEY ARE HERE TO PROTECT THEIR
INTERESTS NOT NOT OURS.
>> EVERYBODY IN IOWA KNOWS THIS
.
>> I'M SORRY, MA'AM.
I'M SORRY TO INTERRUPT, SIR.
WOULD YOU PLEASE GET OUT OF THE
AISLE?
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THE UNITED STATES HAS BEEN
BOUGHT AND PAID FOR BY ISRAEL.
THE SENATE HAS BEEN BOUGHT AND
PAID FOR BY ISRAEL.
THEY DON'T THEY DON'T DEFEND
US.
THEY DO NOT WATCH US.
THEY USE OUR TAX DOLLARS TO
SLAUGHTER PEOPLE IN THE MIDDLE
EAST, GAZA, LEBANON, SYRIA,
YEMEN THEY'RE ALL BEING
SLAUGHTERED WITH AMERICAN TAXES
ONLY THE PAST TWO YEARS THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT GAVE
ISRAEL 30 BILLION DOLLARS AND
ISRAEL HAS BEEN USING THAT TO
MASSACRE CHILDREN, DRIVE PEOPLE
TO EXTINCTION.
THIS IS TO THE SHAME OF THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC.
>> DON'T BE SHY.
COME OUT AND FIGHT THEM.
YOU HAVE A COUNTRY THAT YOU CAN
WIN BACK, KICK THESE PEOPLE OUT
AND PUT PEOPLE WHO ARE GOING TO
MIND YOUR INTEREST AND THAT
WILL REACH YOU PALESTINE.
I AM ASKING EVERYONE COME OUT
AND PROTEST.
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN PROTESTING
ACROSS THE WORLD.
ISRAEL HAS BEEN SLAUGHTERING
PEOPLE 15000 PALESTINIANS ARE
IN THE HANDS OF ISRAEL DYING,
BEING TORTURED.
ALL OF THIS IS POSSIBLE WITH
AMERICAN TAX SUPPORT ALL OF IT
AND THE WORLD HATES US FOR IT.
THANK YOU.
COME AND FIGHT FOR YOURSELVES
AND THANK YOU.
I'M FOR HUMANITY.
THANK YOU.
LISTEN TO THESE GUYS WHO ARE
SITTING HERE.
THEY DON'T REPRESENT US.
THEY REPRESENT I'M MR. MAGNUM.
PLEASE LEAVE THE FLOOR AFTER
MS.
RAPAMYCIN.
THANK YOU MA'AM.
RIGHT, MA'AM.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH MA'AM.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETER HOAK
THANK YOU VERY MUCH MA'AM.
HIGH COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THE
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETER HOAK
ADMINISTRATOR TONY PETER HOUCK.
HIGH COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THE
I'M ON THE TRANSPORTATION
ADMINISTRATOR TONY PETER HOUCK.
COMMISSION BUT TONIGHT AGAIN
I'M ON THE TRANSPORTATION
I'M ADDRESSING YOU JUST FOR
COMMISSION BUT TONIGHT AGAIN
MYSELF.
I'M ADDRESSING YOU JUST FOR
SO YOU'VE ALREADY HEARD THAT
MYSELF.
WE'VE HAD MORE PEDESTRIANS
SO YOU'VE ALREADY HEARD THAT
INJURED AND KILLED IN TRAFFIC
WE'VE HAD MORE PEDESTRIANS
CRASHES SO FAR IN TWENTY TWENTY
INJURED AND KILLED IN TRAFFIC
FIVE THAN IN ANY FULL YEAR
CRASHES SO FAR IN TWENTY TWENTY
SINCE TWENTY FOURTEEN.
FIVE THAN IN ANY FULL YEAR
AND I THINK WE CAN ALL AGREE
SINCE TWENTY FOURTEEN.
THAT THIS IS AN WHERE WE WANT
AND I THINK WE CAN ALL AGREE
TO BE IN THIS YEAR THAT WE
THAT THIS IS AN WHERE WE WANT
TARGETED TO ACHIEVE OUR VISION
TO BE IN THIS YEAR THAT WE
ZERO GOAL.
TARGETED TO ACHIEVE OUR VISION
MY MESSAGE TONIGHT THOUGH IS
ZERO GOAL.
THAT THIS PROBLEM IS FIXABLE BY
MY MESSAGE TONIGHT THOUGH IS
US.
THAT THIS PROBLEM IS FIXABLE BY
I THINK WE CAN DO IT.
US.
KIRK PREVIOUSLY DESCRIBED SOME
I THINK WE CAN DO IT.
THE LONG TERM EFFORTS THAT WE
KIRK PREVIOUSLY DESCRIBED SOME
NEED TO CONCENTRATE ON AND TO
THE LONG TERM EFFORTS THAT WE
THAT I'D ALSO LIKE TO ADD C1
NEED TO CONCENTRATE ON AND TO
AND MENTIONED MY SUPPORT FOR
THAT I'D ALSO LIKE TO ADD C1
THAT.
AND MENTIONED MY SUPPORT FOR
THAT'S ANOTHER IMPORTANT CHANGE
THAT.
THAT WE NEED TO MAKE.
THAT'S ANOTHER IMPORTANT CHANGE
BUT I'D ALSO ESPECIALLY LIKE TO
THAT WE NEED TO MAKE.
FOCUS RIGHT NOW ON THINGS THAT
BUT I'D ALSO ESPECIALLY LIKE TO
THAT WE CAN DO IN TWENTY TWENTY
FOCUS RIGHT NOW ON THINGS THAT
FIVE TO DISRUPT THIS WORST IN A
THAT WE CAN DO IN TWENTY TWENTY
DECADE YEAR THAT WE'RE HAVING
FIVE TO DISRUPT THIS WORST IN A
FOR PEDESTRIANS.
DECADE YEAR THAT WE'RE HAVING
WE NEED TO DO SOMETHING
FOR PEDESTRIANS.
IMMEDIATELY TO KEEP TWENTY
WE NEED TO DO SOMETHING
TWENTY FIVE FROM GETTING ANY
IMMEDIATELY TO KEEP TWENTY
WORSE.
TWENTY FIVE FROM GETTING ANY
SO I'VE I'VE BEEN TO THIS YEAR
WORSE.
I'VE BEEN TO 11 OF THE 13 SITES
SO I'VE I'VE BEEN TO THIS YEAR
WHERE PEOPLE WERE KILLED OR
I'VE BEEN TO 11 OF THE 13 SITES
SERIOUSLY INJURED AND I'VE BEEN
WHERE PEOPLE WERE KILLED OR
TO THE OTHER TWO BECAUSE THOSE
SERIOUSLY INJURED AND I'VE BEEN
MOST TOO RECENT WERE REPEATS.
TO THE OTHER TWO BECAUSE THOSE
I HAVEN'T BEEN TO THEM THIS
MOST TOO RECENT WERE REPEATS.
YEAR BUT I WENT TO THEM THE
I HAVEN'T BEEN TO THEM THIS
LAST TIME THAT THEY HAD CRASH
YEAR BUT I WENT TO THEM THE
AND I'VE SEEN THEY TREND TEN
LAST TIME THAT THEY HAD CRASH
OF THE THIRTEEN SERIOUS AND
AND I'VE SEEN THEY TREND TEN
FATAL CRASHES THAT WE'VE HAD
OF THE THIRTEEN SERIOUS AND
THIS YEAR WERE SUFFERED BY
FATAL CRASHES THAT WE'VE HAD
PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS WHERE
THIS YEAR WERE SUFFERED BY
DRIVERS DIDN'T YIELD.
PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS WHERE
SO WITH THAT IN MIND, THESE ARE
DRIVERS DIDN'T YIELD.
THE ACTIONS THAT I THINK WE CAN
SO WITH THAT IN MIND, THESE ARE
TAKE RIGHT NOW TO EFFECT THESE
THE ACTIONS THAT I THINK WE CAN
CRASHES IN THE SHORT TERM IN
TAKE RIGHT NOW TO EFFECT THESE
THE REST OF THIS YEAR TARGETED
CRASHES IN THE SHORT TERM IN
ENFORCEMENT AT CROSSWALKS AND
THE REST OF THIS YEAR TARGETED
INTERSECTIONS.
ENFORCEMENT AT CROSSWALKS AND
LET'S ADD THAT INTO THE SAFETY
INTERSECTIONS.
CORRIDOR PROGRAM.
LET'S ADD THAT INTO THE SAFETY
LET'S MEASURE AND REPORT DRIVER
CORRIDOR PROGRAM.
COMPLIANCE AT CROSSWALKS.
LET'S MEASURE AND REPORT DRIVER
LET'S DEACTIVATE FLASHING
COMPLIANCE AT CROSSWALKS.
ARROWS AT THE REMAINING
LET'S DEACTIVATE FLASHING
INTERSECTIONS THAT STILL DIRECT
ARROWS AT THE REMAINING
LEFT TURNING TRAFFIC THROUGH
INTERSECTIONS THAT STILL DIRECT
ACTIVE CROSSWALKS AND LET'S
LEFT TURNING TRAFFIC THROUGH
IMPLEMENT LEADING PEDESTRIAN
ACTIVE CROSSWALKS AND LET'S
INTERVALS AT INTERSECTIONS IN
IMPLEMENT LEADING PEDESTRIAN
MAINE WHERE PEDESTRIAN WAS
INTERVALS AT INTERSECTIONS IN
SERIOUSLY INJURED THIS YEAR BY
MAINE WHERE PEDESTRIAN WAS
TURNING VEHICLE.
SERIOUSLY INJURED THIS YEAR BY
SO TO THOSE LAST TWO, TWO
TURNING VEHICLE.
OF THE TEN CRASHES AT
SO TO THOSE LAST TWO, TWO
CROSSWALKS WOULD LIKELY HAVE
OF THE TEN CRASHES AT
BEEN PREVENTED BY THESE CHANGES
CROSSWALKS WOULD LIKELY HAVE
TO FLASHING YELLOW ARROWS AND
BEEN PREVENTED BY THESE CHANGES
LEADING PEDESTRIAN INTERVALE
TO FLASHING YELLOW ARROWS AND
LIKE WE'VE ALREADY DONE THESE
LEADING PEDESTRIAN INTERVALE
CHANGES ALMOST EVERYWHERE BUT
LIKE WE'VE ALREADY DONE THESE
THE CRASH HAS HAPPENED AT THE
CHANGES ALMOST EVERYWHERE BUT
PLACES WE HAVEN'T DONE YET.
THE CRASH HAS HAPPENED AT THE
THIS IS A BIG PART OF WHY I
PLACES WE HAVEN'T DONE YET.
THINK THIS PROBLEM IS FIXABLE.
THIS IS A BIG PART OF WHY I
SO THOSE ARE MY IDEAS.
THINK THIS PROBLEM IS FIXABLE.
IF YOU HAVE ANY OTHER IDEAS
SO THOSE ARE MY IDEAS.
ABOUT HOW TO TURN THIS AROUND,
IF YOU HAVE ANY OTHER IDEAS
I'D LIKE TO HEAR THEM IN YOUR
ABOUT HOW TO TURN THIS AROUND,
COMMENTS TONIGHT BECAUSE I DO
I'D LIKE TO HEAR THEM IN YOUR
THINK ALL OF YOU AGREE WITH ME
COMMENTS TONIGHT BECAUSE I DO
THAT WE CAN DO BETTER IN THIS.
THINK ALL OF YOU AGREE WITH ME
THANK YOU.
THAT WE CAN DO BETTER IN THIS.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
THANK YOU.
FROM COUNCIL HOUSE MEMBER
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
HARRISON?
FROM COUNCIL HOUSE MEMBER
WELL, THANK YOU MAYOR.
HARRISON?
ATTACHED TO TONIGHT'S AGENDA,
WELL, THANK YOU MAYOR.
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR THE PLAY
ATTACHED TO TONIGHT'S AGENDA,
ON THE RECORD MANAGED RECORDS
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR THE PLAY
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM EVALUATION.
ON THE RECORD MANAGED RECORDS
I WOULD ORGANIZE ADMINISTRATOR
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM EVALUATION.
MILTON TONY AND CHEAP UNDER
I WOULD ORGANIZE ADMINISTRATOR
ANDRE ANDERSON FOR RUNNING A
MILTON TONY AND CHEAP UNDER
PROCESS THAT INVOLVED THE
ANDRE ANDERSON FOR RUNNING A
COMMUNITY FROM THE START
PROCESS THAT INVOLVED THE
EPOQUE, THE NAACP AVALON
COMMUNITY FROM THE START
HOUSING THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
EPOQUE, THE NAACP AVALON
COMMISSION, THE TRANSPORTATION
HOUSING THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION AND RESIDENTS ALL
COMMISSION, THE TRANSPORTATION
WEIGHED IN AND THAT MATTERS HOW
COMMISSION AND RESIDENTS ALL
WE MANAGE AND SHARE DATA SHAPES
WEIGHED IN AND THAT MATTERS HOW
HOW THE COMMUNITY EXPERIENCES
WE MANAGE AND SHARE DATA SHAPES
POLICING WHEN COMMUNITY VOICES
HOW THE COMMUNITY EXPERIENCES
SHAPE THE FOUNDATION, THE
POLICING WHEN COMMUNITY VOICES
SYSTEM ACTUALLY SERVES THE
SHAPE THE FOUNDATION, THE
PUBLIC.
SYSTEM ACTUALLY SERVES THE
>> THAT'S HOW YOU BUILD WILL
PUBLIC.
ACCOUNTABILITY INTO THE
>> THAT'S HOW YOU BUILD WILL
INFRASTRUCTURE CITY STAFF
ACCOUNTABILITY INTO THE
ACROSS POLICE FINANCE IT.
INFRASTRUCTURE CITY STAFF
THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AND
ACROSS POLICE FINANCE IT.
THE DIRECTOR OF ORGANIZATIONAL
THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AND
EQUITY ALSO WORKED TOGETHER ON
THE DIRECTOR OF ORGANIZATIONAL
THIS EVALUATION.
EQUITY ALSO WORKED TOGETHER ON
THAT KIND OF COLLABORATION IS
THIS EVALUATION.
EXACTLY WHAT A SYSTEM THIS
THAT KIND OF COLLABORATION IS
ESSENTIAL REQUIRES THE RECORDS
EXACTLY WHAT A SYSTEM THIS
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IS CORE
ESSENTIAL REQUIRES THE RECORDS
INFRASTRUCTURE.
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IS CORE
IT'S THE BACKBONE OF HOW POLICE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
DATA IS COLLECTED, STORED,
IT'S THE BACKBONE OF HOW POLICE
ANALYZED AND SHARED.
DATA IS COLLECTED, STORED,
IT UNDERPINS EVERYTHING ELSE
ANALYZED AND SHARED.
TRANSPARENCY, DASHBOARDS,
IT UNDERPINS EVERYTHING ELSE
COMMUNITY OVERSIGHT, REPORTING
TRANSPARENCY, DASHBOARDS,
ON STOPS AND USE OF FORCE
COMMUNITY OVERSIGHT, REPORTING
INTEGRATION WITH CRISIS
ON STOPS AND USE OF FORCE
RESPONSE POLICY ENFORCEMENT
INTEGRATION WITH CRISIS
ETC. WHEN I BOUGHT THIS
RESPONSE POLICY ENFORCEMENT
RESOLUTION FORWARD IT IS
ETC. WHEN I BOUGHT THIS
BECAUSE OUR CURRENT SYSTEM
RESOLUTION FORWARD IT IS
COULDN'T ANSWER BASIC
BECAUSE OUR CURRENT SYSTEM
QUESTIONS.
COULDN'T ANSWER BASIC
THE COMMUNITY WAS ASKING.
QUESTIONS.
>> THIS WORK SETS US UP TO
THE COMMUNITY WAS ASKING.
FINALLY OWN OUR OWN DATA,
>> THIS WORK SETS US UP TO
PROTECT IT AND USE IT IN REAL
FINALLY OWN OUR OWN DATA,
TIME FOR TRANSPARENCY, FOR
PROTECT IT AND USE IT IN REAL
ACCOUNTABILITY AND FOR SMARTER
TIME FOR TRANSPARENCY, FOR
PUBLIC SAFETY.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND FOR SMARTER
I AM GLAD TO SEE THE
PUBLIC SAFETY.
RECOMMENDATION TO BRING IN DATA
I AM GLAD TO SEE THE
SCIENCE EXPERTS SELECTING THE
RECOMMENDATION TO BRING IN DATA
RIGHT VENDOR AND MANAGING THE
SCIENCE EXPERTS SELECTING THE
TRANSITION WELL IS WHERE THIS
RIGHT VENDOR AND MANAGING THE
EITHER LAND CLEAN OR FALLS
TRANSITION WELL IS WHERE THIS
APART.
EITHER LAND CLEAN OR FALLS
THIS IS SMART DISCIPLINE.
APART.
THIS IS A SMART DISCIPLINE.
THIS IS SMART DISCIPLINE.
NEXT STEP AND EXACTLY WHAT WE
THIS IS A SMART DISCIPLINE.
NEED TO GET THIS DONE RIGHT.
NEXT STEP AND EXACTLY WHAT WE
>> THANK YOU COUNCILMAN
NEED TO GET THIS DONE RIGHT.
BRACHMAN.
>> THANK YOU COUNCILMAN
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
BRACHMAN.
I WANTED TO THANK EVERYONE WHO
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
CAME OUT TO SPEAK UP FOR ROAD
I WANTED TO THANK EVERYONE WHO
SAFETY TONIGHT AND PROVISIONS
CAME OUT TO SPEAK UP FOR ROAD
OBVIOUSLY I SURE ADVOCATES
SAFETY TONIGHT AND PROVISIONS
CONCERNED IN A YEAR WHERE WE
OBVIOUSLY I SURE ADVOCATES
WERE SUPPOSED TO GET TO ZERO
CONCERNED IN A YEAR WHERE WE
WE'RE SEEING NUMBERS THAT WE
WERE SUPPOSED TO GET TO ZERO
HAVEN'T SEEN IN A DECADE.
WE'RE SEEING NUMBERS THAT WE
YOU KNOW, I THINK WE'VE MADE
HAVEN'T SEEN IN A DECADE.
SOME POSITIVE STEPS THAT I
YOU KNOW, I THINK WE'VE MADE
WOULD LIKE YOU TO RECOGNIZE IN
SOME POSITIVE STEPS THAT I
THE CITY LIKE I APPRECIATE THE
WOULD LIKE YOU TO RECOGNIZE IN
ENFORCEMENT WORK THAT'S BEEN
THE CITY LIKE I APPRECIATE THE
GOING ON IN OUR CORRIDORS.
ENFORCEMENT WORK THAT'S BEEN
SOME PRETTY SCARY SPEEDS HAVE
GOING ON IN OUR CORRIDORS.
BEEN OBSERVED AND YOU KNOW,
SOME PRETTY SCARY SPEEDS HAVE
TICKETED AND ALSO THE WAY THAT
BEEN OBSERVED AND YOU KNOW,
WE'RE WEAVING THE
TICKETED AND ALSO THE WAY THAT
TRANSPORTATION PLAN INTO NEW
WE'RE WEAVING THE
PROJECTS.
TRANSPORTATION PLAN INTO NEW
BUT I'M ALSO DETERMINED FOR US
PROJECTS.
TO USE THE FIVE HUNDRED
BUT I'M ALSO DETERMINED FOR US
THOUSAND DOLLARS THAT WE SET
TO USE THE FIVE HUNDRED
ASIDE TO BE RESPONSIVE IN A
THOUSAND DOLLARS THAT WE SET
QUICK FASHION USING OUR QUICK
ASIDE TO BE RESPONSIVE IN A
BELTS PROGRAM.
QUICK FASHION USING OUR QUICK
THAT'S WHAT THAT WAS SUPPOSED
BELTS PROGRAM.
TO BE ABOUT AND I REALLY
THAT'S WHAT THAT WAS SUPPOSED
APPRECIATE COMMISSIONER
TO BE ABOUT AND I REALLY
HOUCK'S, YOU KNOW, FOCUSING ON
APPRECIATE COMMISSIONER
WHERE WE'RE SEEING THESE MOSTLY
HOUCK'S, YOU KNOW, FOCUSING ON
AND THE TYPES OF THINGS THAT
WHERE WE'RE SEEING THESE MOSTLY
SEEM LIKE THEY WOULD STAND TO
AND THE TYPES OF THINGS THAT
MAKE THE MOST DIFFERENCE.
SEEM LIKE THEY WOULD STAND TO
YOU KNOW, I WOULD LIKE TO FOCUS
MAKE THE MOST DIFFERENCE.
THERE.
YOU KNOW, I WOULD LIKE TO FOCUS
I THINK THAT THAT WAS OUR
THERE.
INTENT WHEN WE BROUGHT FORWARD
I THINK THAT THAT WAS OUR
THAT BUDGET AMENDMENT WAS AGAIN
INTENT WHEN WE BROUGHT FORWARD
TO BE ABLE TO BE A
RESPONSIVE
AND TO STOP THIS FROM
HAPPENING.
>> THANKS COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK
.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO DIRECT
COUNSEL'S ATTENTION TO ITEM C C
DASH ONE ON OUR AGENDA
RESOLUTION TO APPOINT MOBEEN
AND BALEKA AS YOUTH
REPRESENTATIVES TO THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMMISSION AND
WITH YOUR EVENTUAL SUPPORT
COUNCIL MEMBER KERNOHAN AND I
AS COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVES TO
THE SUSTAINABLE RECOMMISSION
LOOK FORWARD TO WELCOMING THEM.
>> THANK YOU COUNCILOR RAKOWSKI
.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO SHARE OFFICE
HOURS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER WERE
DENHA AND MYSELF ARE HAVING ON
MONDAY OCTOBER 13TH AT MANTI'S
FOR WARD THREE SO COME OUT IF
YOU'D LIKE TO CHAT WITH US.
>> THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK AND I INVITE YOU
TO AWARD TO LISTENING SESSION
AT TREVER WOOD LIBRARY SUNDAY
OCTOBER 19TH FROM 11:00 A.M. TO
NOON WE WILL BE JOINED BY THE
PUBLIC SERVICES AREA
ADMINISTRATOR JORDAN ROBERTS.
>> WE HOPE YOU WILL ATTEND TO
TALK ABOUT ANY MANNER OF TOPICS
INCLUDING INFRASTRUCTURE, THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
TRANSPORTATION, FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THEY WERE
PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL ON
SEPTEMBER 15, 20 25 TO THE
LOCAL FINANCE AUTHORITY MICHAEL
HALL MOVE BY COUNCIL CORNELL
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
NOMINATION ON FABER POST.
>> IT IS APPROVED.
I WOULD LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE RECREATION
ADVISORY COMMISSION CHIARO WITH
WIT JODI HEKKER KONER NEVILL TO
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
ROBERTA SUTTON FURTHER TO
IDENTIFY FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION
AT OUR NEXT MEETING THE
APPOINTMENT OF DEADEND CHEN TO
THE RENTERS COMMISSION WE HAVE
INFORMED CONSENT AGENDA MOVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN CORNELL DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS POLICA FIVE CFR
FIVE FURTHER DISCUSSION THE
CONSENT AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR
OF THE CONSENT TO GENERATE THE
EXCEPTION TO THE FIVE OPPOSED
THE CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED
WITH THE EXCEPTION FIVE WITH
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTING IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THUS SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO
SEET SIX, SEET FOURTEEN AND
FIFTEEN SEET FIVE FOR THE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A COST
ALLOCATION AGREEMENT WITH THE
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN FOR THE HIGH LEVEL
TRUNK LINE SEWER CAPACITY
IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER QUINNELL
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF FIVE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
>> THANKS.
SO I'LL START BY PROVIDING A
BIT OF BACKGROUND FOR THOSE WHO
ARE LISTENING AND MAY NOT KNOW
WHAT THE FIVE IS AS MOST KNOW,
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IS
CURRENTLY DEVELOPING A NEW
CENTRAL CAMPUS STUDENT HOUSING
COMPLEX ON THE SITE OF THE
FORMER ELBEL FIELD.
I APPRECIATE THAT THE
UNIVERSITY IS COMMITTED TO
ADDING MUCH NEEDED HOUSING FOR
STUDENTS.
HOWEVER, THE UNIVERSITY HAS AN
AMBITIOUS SCHEDULE AND THIS WAS
NOT A PROJECT THAT WAS
ANTICIPATED BY THE CITY PHASE
ONE OF THIS PROJECT A TWENTY
THREE HUNDRED BID RESIDENCE
HALL WITH A DINING FACILITY IS
DUE TO OPEN IN THE SUMMER
OF TWENTY TWENTY SIX PRIOR TO
OCCUPATION.
WE KNOW THAT WE NEED TO ADDRESS
SOME SANITARY SEWER CAPACITY
ISSUES THE UNIVERSITY
COMMISSIONED SANITARY SEWER
ANALYSIS FOR THE COMPLEX AND
THE ANALYSIS DETERMINED THAT
CAPACITY IMPROVEMENTS TO THE
CITY'S SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
ARE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO
ACCOMMODATE SANITARY FLOWS FROM
THE COMPLEX DURING EXTREME WET
WEATHER EVENTS THERE IS
SUFFICIENT DRY WEATHER
CAPACITY.
CURRENTLY THE COST SHARING
AGREEMENT IN FRONT OF US
COMMITS THE UNIVERSITY TO
PAYING APPROXIMATELY 90 PERCENT
OF PROJECT COST OR AN ESTIMATED
16 MILLION TO COMPLETE THE
FIRST PHASE OF THIS PROJECT
CONSTRUCTING A NEW SANITARY
RELIEF SEWER.
THIS INVOLVES CONSTRUCTING
APPROXIMATELY FIFTEEN HUNDRED
FEET OF SANITARY RELIEF SEWER
IN THE FIFTH WARD AND IT WILL
BE INSTALLED USING A MICRO
TUNNELING TRENCH LESS
CONSTRUCTION METHODOLOGY.
SO WHILE I'M APPRECIATIVE
OF THE COST SHARING AGREEMENT
THAT'S BEFORE US, I AND DO
SUPPORT ITS APPROVAL TONIGHT I
DO THINK THAT THERE'S A
MODIFICATION THAT'S NEEDED TO
CLARIFY WHAT HAPPENS IN A
SCENARIO WHERE THINGS DON'T GO
EXACTLY AS PLANNED.
SO THE CITY IS DOING EVERYTHING
IT CAN TO WORK WITH THE
UNIVERSITY TO MEET THE SCHEDULE
AND HAVE PART OF THE PROJECT
COMPLETE BEFORE STUDENTS MOVE
INTO THE DORM.
BUT IF A DELAY OCCURS BEYOND
THE CITY'S CONTROL AND THE WORK
ISN'T COMPLETED ON SCHEDULE AND
THE UNIVERSITY'S DECIDES TO GO
AHEAD AND OCCUPY THE FIRST
PHASE OF THE STORM, I THINK WE
NEED TO HAVE A CONTINGENCY
PLAN.
SO I DO RECOGNIZE A STAFF
BELIEVES THAT THE WET WEATHER
CONDITIONS THAT WE ARE TALKING
ABOUT DURING THIS TIME GAP ARE
NOT LIKELY BUT THEY ARE
NONETHELESS A POSSIBILITY AND
PRESENT RISK FOR US AS A CITY
AND MORE IMPORTANTLY TO OUR
RESIDENTS.
I BELIEVE REASONABLE TO EXPECT
THAT THE UNIVERSITY WILL WORK
WITH THE CITY TO MITIGATE WET
WEATHER FLOWS AND TO SHARE IN
THE COST OF ADDRESSING WET
WEATHER PROBLEMS IF THEY OCCUR
BEFORE PART IS COMPLETED.
SO I DO HAVE AN AMENDMENT I'D
LIKE TO PROPOSE TONIGHT.
I THINK MISS BEAUDRY WILL SHARE
IT AROUND IN A SEC
SO I WILL
READ THAT RESOLVED THAT THE
CITY COUNCIL APPROVES THE COST
ALLOCATION AGREEMENT WITH THE
REGIONS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN FOR RESPONSE.
>> THIS IS AN AMENDMENT TO THIS
RESOLVE CLAUSE THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL APPROVES OF THE COST
ALLOCATION AGREEMENT WITH THE
REGENTS, THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN RESPONSIBILITIES
AND COSTS ALLOCATIONS FOR HIGH
LEVEL TRUNK LINE SEWER CAPACITY
IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT AND THEN
THIS NEW PART IS SUBJECT TO A
SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENT OR
SUPPLEMENT CLARIFYING THAT THE
UNIVERSITY'S AGREEMENT TO
COOPERATE WITH THE CITY TO
IDENTIFY AND IMPLEMENT
REASONABLE MUTUALLY AGREEABLE
WEATHER MITIGATION MEASURES AND
TO TREAT ANY WET WEATHER
PROBLEMS AND CLAIMS AND RELATED
COST AS PROJECT COSTS TO BE
PAID ACCORDING TO THE COST
ALLOCATION IN THE AGREEMENT.
NINETY TEN IS THERE A SECOND
SECOND BY COUNCILOR CORNELL
COUNCILOR BREACHER THAT'S FOR
THREE MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU SHOWS A LOT IS A
DISCUSSION ON THE AMENDMENT OR
IS IT FRIENDLY THE BODY
COUNCILOR CORNELL I PROBABLY
COULD HAVE WAITED FOR PEOPLE TO
SAY IF THIS IS FRIENDLY BUT I
WANT TO THANK CITY STAFF FOR
WORKING ON THIS WITH THE
UNIVERSITY TO MEET THE SCHEDULE
AND TO HAVE THE FIRST PART
OF THIS PROJECT COMPLETED
BEFORE STUDENTS MOVE IN.
I THINK THAT THIS AMENDMENT IS
FAIR AND REASONABLE ALLOCATION
OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR
ADDRESSING THE RISK OF WHAT IS
A REMOTE POSSIBILITY.
HOWEVER, GOOD PARTNERSHIPS I
THINK ARE DEFINED BY WHAT WE
AGREE ON FROM THE OUTSET AND
THIS TO ME FEELS NO DIFFERENT
THAN THAT.
>> SO I'M I'M VERY MUCH
SUPPORTIVE OF THIS AMENDMENT
FURTHER DISCUSSION THE
AMENDMENT ON FAVOR OPPOSE THE
AMENDMENTS ADOPTED FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF THE MOTION AS
AMENDED WILL FAVOR OR OPPOSED
THE AMENDMENT IS APPROVED.
>> WE NOW COME TO A SET
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS, PUBLIC
HEARINGS ARE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT THIS SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT A PUBLIC HEARING ONE NEED
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS
TO SAY THE SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE
AGENDA TO WHICH THE PUBLIC
HEARING RELATES TO SPEAKERS IN
ALL INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS.
OUR REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
IS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST PUBLIC HEARING IS
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTEEN PURCHASING CONTRACTING
AND SELLING PROCEDURE TITLE ONE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY BANABA.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS ON LINE
FOR THE HEARING
SEE NO.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NO TO AN
AUDIENCE TO ADD CHAPTER NINETY
FIVE TEMPORARY REDUCTION
OF DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
BETWEEN K-12 SCHOOLS AND
MARIJUANA FACILITIES AND
ESTABLISHMENTS TO TITLE SEVEN
BUSINESS AND TRADES OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY BANABA.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
>> MAYOR I DON'T SEE ANY
CALLERS ON LINE FOR THIS
HEARING
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES IS IN
NOVEMBER.
FIFTEEN TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
MEMBER MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THESE MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON SECOND DAY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
MINUTES OR IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED BE1 AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FOURTEEN PURCHASING CONTRACTING
AND SELLING PROCEDURE TITLE ONE
THE CODE OF THE SEA OF ANN
ARBOR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
LADINE TAKEN BY COUNCILOR
GILSENAN ONE DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF BE1 ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED B TO AN AUDIENCE TO
ADD CHAPTER NINETY FIVE
TEMPORARY REDUCTION OF DISTANCE
REQUIREMENTS BETWEEN K-12
SCHOOLS, MARIJUANA FACILITIES
AND ESTABLISHMENTS TO TITLE
SEVEN BUSINESS AND TRADES.
THE CODE OF THIS EVENT ARE
REMOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF B TO ON FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED C ONE ORDENES TO AMEND
CHAPTER PART OF AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND SECTION ONE TO
ZERO
OF CHAPTER EIGHT BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS OF TITLE ONE
OF CITY CODE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACT AND SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER KORNEL
DISCUSSION OF C ONE COUNCIL
BRACKMAN THANK YOU.
>> OK SO A FEW WORDS ABOUT
THIS.
THIS IS LARGELY ABOUT CODIFYING
A RESPONSIBILITY THAT
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION IN
CONJUNCTION WITH STAFF HAVE
BEEN DEVELOPING OVER THE LAST
YEAR OR SO AND ESSENTIALLY THAT
PROCESS IS THAT SERIOUS INJURY
AND CRASH REPORTS COME FORWARD
ONCE ALL OF THE RELEVANT DETAIL
IS KNOWN, ITS DETAILED DISCUSS
AND INCLUDES IDENTIFYING
MITIGATION STRATEGIES.
I THINK THIS IS STILL BEING
REFINED BUT LIKE I SAID, THIS
IS AN EFFORT TO CODIFY WITHIN
THE BYLAWS WHAT HAS BEEN IN
PROCESS FOR A WHILE.
>> THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
IN FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED
ONE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
ELECTION OF LINNETT FINALE TO A
THIRD CONSECUTIVE TERM AS
PRESIDENT OF THE ANN ARBOR
SUMMER FESTIVAL BOARD MOVE BY
HOUSE NO DENHA SAY COUNCIL
MEMBER MALLIK DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC ONE ON FAVOR ALL OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED DC TWO
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT AND
APPROPRIATE GRANT FUNDS FROM
THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
TO SUPPORT A COMMUNITY
GEOTHERMAL INSTALLATION IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND TO APPROVE AN
ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT WITH THE
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY.
THE AMOUNT OF TEN MILLION SEVEN
HUNDRED SEVENTY FOUR THOUSAND
ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY SEVEN
DOLLARS MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA SIGNIFICANCE BECAUSE WE
HAD ONE DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
TO DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I'LL BE RELATIVELY BRIEF.
I JUST WANT TO SAY I AM
INCREDIBLY EXCITED TO SEE THIS
PROJECT MOVING FORWARD.
COMMUNITY GEOTHERMAL IN THE
BRYANT NEIGHBORHOOD HAS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE NOT JUST
AS A GIANT STEP FORWARD IN OUR
COMMUNITY WIDE
CARBON NEUTRALITY EFFORTS BUT
ALSO CAN SERVE AS A
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR OTHER
PROJECTS THROUGHOUT ANN ARBOR
AND OTHER COMMUNITIES
THROUGHOUT MICHIGAN.
LIKE ALL OF THE WORK OUT OF OUR
SIDE, THIS PROJECT IS ROOTED IN
EQUITY INTENTIONALLY AIMED AT
SERVING ONE IN OUR MOST DIVERSE
AND AFFORDABLE NEIGHBORHOODS
AND ONCE COMPLETED SHOULD SERVE
TO LOWER ENERGY UTILITY BILLS
FOR EVERYONE PARTICIPATING.
IT ALSO HELPS ELIMINATE THE
NEED FOR FOSSIL GAS HEATING
SYSTEMS, REDUCING GREENHOUSE
GAS EMISSIONS AND AIR
POLLUTANTS IN INDOOR SPACES
WHICH SHOULD IMPROVE THE HEALTH
OF OUR NEIGHBORS.
SO I JUST WANT TO GIVE MY
SINCERE THANKS TO OUR
HARDWORKING STAFF, OUR PARTNERS
THAT CAN AND THE BRYANT CENTER
AND OUR FUNDING PARTNERS.
AND I'D ALSO LIKE TO ASK OUR
INCREDIBLE OSHA DIRECTOR DR.
MRS STULTS IF SHE'D LIKE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPE ON THIS
FURTHER IF SHE SO DESIRES.
DR. STOLTZ WILL BE JOINING US
ON TSOU
.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA AND IT'S A
PLEASURE TO BE WITH YOU ALL
TONIGHT I'LL BE VIRTUALLY TO
CELEBRATE THIS MOMENTOUS MOMENT
THIS WE'VE HAD A LOT OF GREAT
ASIDE AND I WILL TELL YOU THIS
IS THE ONE THAT MADE ME JUMP UP
AND DOWN AND GET A LITTLE GIDDY
BECAUSE WE WERE PRETTY
CONCERNED WHEN WE STARTED THE
BRYANT PROJECT IN TERMS OF HOW
WE WERE GOING TO DECARBONIZE
HEATING AND COOLING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WITHOUT INCREASING
ENERGY BURDEN.
AND THIS IS A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
SUFFERS FROM PRETTY EXTREME
ENERGY BURDEN.
>> AND SO WHEN WE WON THE
PLANNING GRANT I THOUGHT THIS
MIGHT BE IT AND THEN WHEN WE
SUBMITTED OUR FINAL GRANT I
KNEW IT WAS IT BECAUSE WE HAD
INCREDIBLE COMMUNITY SUPPORT.
WE HAD WONDERFUL COLLABORATORS
.
WE HAD A FABULOUS PARTNER AT
THE TABLE TO HELP US FUND THIS
PROJECT AND HERE WE ARE TODAY.
SO I WOULD BE REMISS IF I
DIDN'T GIVE INCREDIBLE AMOUNTS
OF GRATITUDE TO ALL OF YOU FOR
TRUSTING US AS WE WENT ON A
JOURNEY THAT STARTED FOUR YEARS
GO WITH IN TRUTH NO IDEA HOW WE
WERE GOING TO ACHIEVE THE GOALS
IN BRYANT.
BUT HERE WE ARE FAST FORWARD
AND WHAT WAS A TWINKLE IN OUR
EYE IS NOW COMING TO FRUITION
AND IS GOING TO BE MIGHT NOT BE
IT IS GOING TO BE THE FIRST
CARBON NEUTRAL EXISTING
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE COUNTRY
THANKS TO THIS GRANT.
SO I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU
ALL.
I WANT TO THANK ALL THE
RESIDENTS OF BRYAN WHO'VE BEEN
WITH US EVERY STEP OF THIS
JOURNEY HELPING US FIND
SOLUTIONS TO OUR FRIENDS AND
CAN AND I ACTUALLY HAVE TO CALL
IN TO CALL OUT JO LANG ON OUR
TEAM WHO HAS BECOME AN EXPERT
IN GEOTHERMAL SYSTEMS.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT THIS.
>> IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME IN THE
MAKING.
THANK YOU.
>> COUNCILOR GAUZS EDWIN THANK
YOU ER AND CONGRATULATIONS DR
STULTZ INTO OSSI STAFF.
IT'S INCREDIBLE.
YOU KNOW I AM I JUST WANT TO
SAY YOU KNOW I'M SO INCREDIBLY
PROUD AND HAPPY THAT THE BRYANT
PARK NEIGHBORHOOD IS ON TRACK
TO BE ONE OF THE FIRST
CARBONNEUTRAL NEIGHBORHOODS IN
THE ENTIRE NATION AND I WAS
RECENTLY TALKING TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DEREK MILLER
AND I JUST I WANT TO I WANT TO
SHARE THIS BECAUSE REALLY
STRIKES TO JUST HOW IMPACTFUL
THIS PROJECT HAS BEEN ON ACTUAL
RESIDENTS LIVES.
AND HE WAS SAYING THAT BECAUSE
OF SOME OF THE WORK HE'S DONE
WITH US, IT'S HELPED TO REMOVE
TOXINS FROM PEOPLE'S HOMES,
POISONOUS GAS EMISSIONS.
>> I THINK THAT THE WORK YOU
GUYS ARE DOING IS TRULY MAKING
IT POSSIBLE FOR PEOPLE
IRRESPECTIVE OF INCOME TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE.
SO CONGRATULATIONS AND THANK
YOU FOR ALL YOUR WORK AND ALSO
I WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED TO
THIS YEAH.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
I JUST WANT TO JOIN THE CHORUS
OF CELEBRATION.
IT IS TRULY MIRACULOUS THAT
THIS GRANT ULTIMATELY CAME
THROUGH BECAUSE WE KNOW OF SO
MANY THINGS THAT ARE NOT AND IT
TAKES AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT
OF COURAGE TO PIONEER A NEW
ENERGY TECHNOLOGY AND THE
BRYANT NEIGHBORHOOD IS DOING
THAT FOR THIS CITY AND CRYSTAL
STEWART AND JORDAN LARSON,
CRYSTAL IN PARTICULAR HAVE BEEN
GOING DOOR TO DOOR AND SAYING
WILL YOU LET PEOPLE IN YOUR
HOUSE TO LOOK AT YOUR
INSULATION AND YOU KNOW, SORT
OF GIVE YOU A GRADE AND THEN
YOU KNOW, LATER WE'RE GOING TO
CHANGE OUT YOUR HEATING BOTHER
?
YOU KNOW, NO PROBLEM.
WE'LL JUST DO THAT.
IT'S AMAZING PEOPLE ARE GETTING
ON BOARD.
>> THIS IS NOT EASY AND I LOVE
IT THAT WE GOT THIS MONEY
BECAUSE IT WILL TAKE SO MANY
DREAMS COME TRUE AND THOSE
DREAMS ARE THE BEST DREAMS
THERE ARE THERE ARE ABOUT HEAT
AND SECURITY AND STABILITY.
>> SO THERE ARE FURTHER
DISCUSSION FOR MY PART I'M
INCREDIBLY EXCITED ABOUT ABOUT
WHAT THIS GRANT WILL UNLOCK IN
OUR BRYANT NEIGHBORHOOD.
OF COURSE WE HAVE IN
CONJUNCTION WITH THE FOLKS WHO
ARE LIVING WHO LIVE THERE
CRUCIALLY IN CONJUNCTION WITH
THE FOLKS WHO LIVE THERE.
WE'VE HAD A VISION AS A
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION, AS A
COUNCILOR, MUNICIPAL
ORGANIZATION, A STAFF COMMUNITY
TO CREATE AMERICA'S FIRST
CARBON NEUTRAL NEIGHBORHOOD AND
THIS PUTS US ON A STRAIGHT ROAD
TO ACCOMPLISH THAT GOAL.
IT IS THE RESULT OF THE GREAT
AND GOOD AND VISIONARY WORK
OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BROWN
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE STAFF OF OUR CITY, THE
FOLKS WHO SUPPORT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD CAN AND OTHERS AND
THE ABILITY OF US TO TO
ACCOMPLISH THIS GOAL AS A
RESULT OF THE VARIOUS
INITIATIVES APPROVED BY THE
VOTERS AT THE POLLS THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY, THE
COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION
VILLAGE THESE THINGS ARE
CRUCIAL TO GETTING THIS WORK
DONE WITHOUT THOSE COMMITMENTS
FROM OUR COMMUNITY AS A WHOLE
WE WOULD NOT BE IN A POSITION
TO ACCOMPLISH SOMETHING THAT
SHOULD BE WHEN IT WHEN THE
SWITCH IS THROWN SHOULD BE
FRONT PAGE NEWS EVERYWHERE.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO THANK
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC.
I'D LIKE TO THANK THE OUR STAFF
OF COURSE CAN THE MEMBERS
OF THE BROWN NEIGHBORHOOD AND
OUR ULTIMATE FUNDING PARTNERS
AS WELL AS THE DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY.
OF COURSE, YOU KNOW, WE
WOULDN'T BE DOING THIS WITHOUT
FEDERAL DOLLARS THIS JUNCTURE
AND I'M I'M GRATEFUL FOR IT
WITH WITH THIS HELP WE'RE GOING
TO BE ABLE TO DO GREAT THINGS
FOR OUR RESIDENTS AND SERVE AS
AN EXEMPLAR OF GOVERNMENT
THAT'S DOING GOOD WORK FOR FOR
ITS COMMUNITY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR
OPPOSED.
>> IT'S BRUTE DC THREE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A BEST
SOURCE PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
GREEN WITH IMMIG CONSULTANTS
CORP FOR DESIGN, ENGINEERING
AND ADVISORY SERVICES RELATED
TO THE INSTALLATION
OF COMMUNITY GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM.
THE NEIGHBORED THE AMOUNT
OF ONE MILLION EIGHT HUNDRED
AND TWENTY ONE SIX HUNDRED AND
TWENTY EIGHT THOUSAND DOLLARS
BY CATHOLIC HOSPITAL AND SECOND
BY COUNCIL.
NO DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC THREE IN FAVOR OPPOSE IS
APPROVED WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTED
AFFIRMATIVE THE SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT FOR
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A SUB
RECIPIENT AGREEMENT WITH A
COMMUNITY WITH COMMUNITY ACTION
NETWORK TO LEAD COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT AS PART OF THE U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY DISTRICT
GEOTHERMAL GRANT IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE AMOUNT
OF FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA
SECOND BY COUNCILOR GHAZI EDWYN
DISCUSSION PLEASE.
>> A DC FOUR FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED DC FIVE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE A SUBDISCIPLINE GRANT
AGREEMENT WITH UAI ONE NINETY
IBEW 252 LLC TO LEAD WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT AS PART OF THE U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY DISTRICT
IF FEDERAL GRANT IN THE BRIAN
NEIGHBORHOOD OF THE AMOUNT
OF FIVE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BECAUSE HE HAD ONE
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC SIX
FIVE SORRY COUNCIL HIGHER THANK
YOU.
>> JUST A VERY BRIEF COMMENT
THAT UM POINTING OUT WHAT THIS
IS IT'S SO IMPORTANT AS WE ARE
MOVING TOWARDS NEW TECHNOLOGY
LIKE GEOTHERMAL THAT WE ARE
SUPPORTING THE FOLKS WHO HAVE
BEEN DOING THE WORK TO HEAT OUR
COMMUNITY FOR ALL OF THESE
MANY, MANY DECADES IN
TRANSITIONING THEIR SKILLS INTO
THE SKILLS THE FUTURE.
>> AND SO THIS PART OF IT
IS
REALLY IMPORTANT IN THAT SENSE
MAKING SURE THAT WE HAVE WHAT
WE CALL A JUST TRANSITION SO
THAT WE'RE NOT LEAVING THE
WORKERS THAT WE HAVE RELIED ON
FOR SO MANY YEARS BEHIND BUT
MAKING SURE THAT WE ARE HELPING
BRING THEM ALONG AND TRAIN THEM
FOR FUTURE JOBS FOR THE
DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IS APPROVED SIX RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE CHANGE ORDERS NUMBERS
TWO AND THREE TO THE
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT WITH
FONT'S AND COMPANY FOR THE
FULLER PARK PARKING LOT
IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT AND BORDER
TO BORDER TRAIL IMPROVEMENTS
PROJECT AND APPROPRIATE FUNDING
SEVENTY FIVE THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED AND SIXTEEN DOLLARS AND
FIFTY NINE CENTS INCREASE TO A
TOTAL OF NINE HUNDRED THIRTY
SEVEN THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED
SIXTY TWO DOLLARS AND A FIFTY
ONE CENTS MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRIS AND SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR WATSON DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC SIX IN FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IS APPROVED WITH ELEVEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE.
THE SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT DO YOU HAVE THE
PLEASURE OF A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY?
>> NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE CLERKS
ARE PART OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS AND I
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE CLERK'S SUPPORT BARBARA
DENHA DISCUSSION OF THE CLERKS
REPORT ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED IS
APPROVED BY THE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
>> NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT, OVERFILL MAY I HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCILMAN QUINNELL SECOND
BY OF OUR DISCUSSION FAVOR
OPPOSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED IF